---
date: 2024-03-08
---
# What is Drizzle: The Unveiling About?

Some believed that humanity would emerge better from COVID-19. It in fact came out worse. More differences than similarities were highlighted among families and friends. Society became more polarized than ever, both politically and ideologically. Societies who were understood as "secularized, technologically advanced and enlightened" were proven to happily ignore science by claiming that vaccines cause cancer, IR thermometers give you brain tumors and, of course, wearing masks on your chin to protect against airborne viruses.

The unsurmountable waves of disinformation coupled together with the borderline sexual desire of keeping markets working in the midst of a global pandemic by the dearest and riches of us all has shown without a doubt that Humanity absolutely *cannot* come together behind a common cause, even if that means that it will go extinct.

With the popularization of Large Language Models, AI became as discussed as ever, with some firmly believing that these carefully constructed matrix multiplication algorithms capable of producing random pieces of text that fire up in Human brains as "logical responses" to questions are sentient and deserve to be recognized as such, showing once again how humans are amazingly capable of empathizing with the suffering of other creatures. Except, of course, when these creatures are children in Gaza. For these abominations, the only remedy is oblivion.

Modern neoliberalism pushes humans to an ever worsening state of life: Prices increase as never before, jobs disappear and those that are still available pay less and less, forcing workers into ever-worsening work conditions, until these workers break down and are forced to commodify their lives as never before: Selling bodily pictures online. Taking odd jobs as Uber drivers. The list goes on. Everybody is a business owner now! Isn't it great? Who cares, your business is to sell feet pics on the internet. You are an *entrepreneur* now. You've *won!*.

Of course, one cannot *not* speak about global warming. The monster who's behind our doorsteps for decades now. It is very reassuring to know that the problem is solved! Yes! Humanity officially decided that the best solution to this problem was to *not give a shit about it and let the Earth burn (and the poorest among us burn with it)*. I already feel safer, knowing there is a plan to deal with it. Even more reassuring is knowing that the richest Humans on the planet are working assiduously and pouring their fortunes toward implementing this novel solution, by submitting workers to modern slavery conditions and using the profit generated by them to construct rockets to see the planet from space (before it all burns down) and buying out social media platforms to let famous transphobes voice their opinions without being disturbed by *woke* people. Urgh. Those woke kids.

# Okay, seriously now, what the fuck is Drizzle, why the ":" and what is being "unveiled"? Are you an edgy millennial?

Yes. But also, "Drizzle: The Unveiling" (DTU) is an Action/Adventure digital Role Playing Game (CRPG) set in the modern post-COVID late-stage capitalism hellscape world of 2023 except there are supernatural monsters that lurk in the shadows of our society. These monsters are forced to do horrible things to survive, and often control and enforce the practices observed throughout the world. This shadow society works hard to keep itself hidden from prying eyes so it can continue to exist and exert is self-interested plans on the world. And before you ask, yes. This *is* an allegory to capitalism (sorry, Tolkien).

More specifically, DTU takes place in [Drizzle City](wiki/drizzle_city.md). Even more specifically, in [Drizzle City Municipal University (DCMU)](wiki/dcmu.md), in the year of 2023, in the world described in the previous section. 

Our characters are also edgy millennials attending various courses in DCMU. The twist is that these millennials are *vampires*. Clinically, they are dead: they don't breathe, blink, eat or drink. Their hearts don't beat and they don't feel love. During the day, they lay comatose in their hideouts, hiding from the sun. During the night, ancient mysterious powers reanimate their corpses, and they gain sentience once more. Animated by these powers, they carry out their wills and ambitions in the shadowy society of the night, controlled by older and even worse vampires than themselves. They are used and manipulated, often without their knowledge, by these elders for their own selfish purposes. These vampires are called the *[Puer Sanguinis](wiki/puer_sanguinis.md)*, due to their young age.

Each member of the cast represents a different viewpoint in the following dilemma:

```
You are a monster. To continue existing, you must suck on the blood of the living. The ecstasy of blood is so high that it slowly strips away at your morality and turns you into a horrible being. 

Your existence is threatened by other monsters like that want to take your place, but also by monster hunters that seek to find and destroy your kind.

What is the best way to survive in this society?
```

^476916

Each character's answer represents their core beliefs (this will be explored further in the [Characters](characters.md) section). Given their early age in the night scene and their upbringing, they are strongly opinionated and are mouthpieces for different [Factions](wiki/factions.md) of the night scene. Prior to the start of DTU, they are competing for control of the university campus, but have reached a stalemate. Each vampire claims an approximately equal sized territory for a faction, and this has been true for some time now. They have also strictly controlled the vampire population on campus, believing that any new vampire could shift the balance of power. And they were right.

The plot of DTU starts when a new "illegal" vampire is created, by an unknown [Lord](wiki/lord.md) and unknown reasons. This unexpected *Puer Sanguinis* is the **Player Character** #PC. They have absolutely no idea on the existence of the society of the night (see [Pactum Absconditum Sanguinem](the_pact.md)) and must learn everything from the unreliable sources that are the other *Puer Sanguinis* already on campus. The #PC wakes up confused, hungry and in a quest to find the one who murdered them and turned them into a vampire. Along the way, the #PC may befriend the various factions operating on campus. They shall be lied, used and manipulated but in the end the truth about their maker will be revealed to them, and they will be forced to choose a side or be destroyed.